Let me introduce you to Kharkiv, my city.
It's eclectic
Just like Liverpool, it’s a centre for culture, science,
education, philosophy and trade.
<<<<<<< HEAD
The streets are full of students from around the world.
Situated between Asia and Europe,
you can see our transnational history
=======
The streets are full of students from around the world.
Situated between Asia and Europe,
you can see our transnational history
>>>>>>> b6d22948c9e9da56ddec16255fd9b9f027f23ded
carved out in the different architecture.
Here is where the first concrete skyscraper was built in the Soviet Union.
An amazing monument of constructivism,
made from concrete and iron, using horses.
Kharkiv is only 40 kilometres from Russia and has become a city on the frontline.
From the first days, our busy streets, were targeted with rockets
cluster and air bombs.
But just like concrete and iron are hard to destroy,
our spirits are also unbreakable.
As each of us bravely questioned our responsibility.
Asking how can I help to win?
To survive?
And for a moment concerts were silent,
and Philharmonic Music Halls close their doors
As musicians like Stas Kononov put down their instruments
<<<<<<< HEAD
and became a frontline volunteer…
STAS KONONOV: I was meant to play a concert in London
on the 28th of February.
On the morning of the 24th
a friend of mine, came knocking on my door, shouting
‘wake up, or you will sleep through the war’.
For the next few days myself and other artists
gathered in a small flat near the centre.
People were coming and going
and we were trying to work out,
should we stay or should we leave?
I received a phone call from a friend in a more dangerous district,
saying that there was a basement with 450 people.
That they didn’t have anything,
no food, no water
and its too dangerous to go outside.
It was the moment I realised that I must stay.
That there was a responsibility to provide and seek resources.
The flat I was in became a headquarters
and everyone there if not actors, were connected to music, art, culture.
It was a little chaotic in that moment.
Someone provides something and its distributed
to whoever most needs…
Sharing everything…
It was a very intense process.
After some time it became more organised
and we had districts and volunteers in each area.
Of course it was dangerous.
Everywhere in Kharkiv was dangerous.
But I know a lot of examples of bravery
and for me what I was doing is not brave.
It was stressful and frightening,
it was a lots of things.
Everything makes you cry but inside
but inside you have this feeling that you are in the right place,
are part of something bigger than yourself,
that we are all equal, all connected.
Everyone helps everyone and it doesn’t matter who you were before.
You could of been a businessman with a Tesla car
or an artist who drives something very shitty.
Even the chief commander of the military base worked without hierarchy.
It was a horizontal connection…
it was solidarity.
You called someone if you needed something
and you solved it.
It felt that one hundred people were one.
Before the full-scale invasion,
I was asking these questions
Who am I?
What am I?
This situation gave me the answers.
It feels like making music has not mattered for a long time.
A lot of musicians reject music right now.
To play, you must be in the moment,
be present, to connect to your emotions.
It is very stressful and painful and when you start to play,
you feel your pain and it comes in such a wave that
you stop and think, never again.
We don’t have the space to be emotional.
So you go round in this circle.
And come back to the idea that it is not the time…
maybe later.
=======
and became a frontline volunteer…
>>>>>>> b6d22948c9e9da56ddec16255fd9b9f027f23ded